[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
We are going to start looking at lists in
a bit more
detail now, and looking at different
things that we can do with them.
So if we just get started by writing a
list.
And remember a list is square brackets.
And I'm going to do the list up to number
11.
And then what we're going to do is just
create a
print function and inside of there we're
just going to, print out
the list, and if we just run this you'll
see that
we get the list exactly as we wrote it,
which is different.
Again, to remember, the dictionary which
prints out in
the hashed order rather than in the,
declared order.
So what we can do from here, is, if we use
square brackets within the call.
So, list, and then put the square brackets
in there.
We can put, information between the two
square brackets, which
tell us what sort of information
[INAUDIBLE] we wish to retrieve.
So we can retrieve a certain item using
the index value.
So remember it starts at zero, one, two.
So the second index item is actually the
third value,
and as you can see, we get number three
out.
Well, we can change that to say number
four and
we'll get the number five out, cuz that's
the fourth index.
However, we can also use negative numbers,
and a negative
number would take it from the right-hand
side and go backward.
So negative one gives us 11.
And negative four will give us, eight, and
so on.
So, you can, if, if you want to go from
the right-hand side to the
left, you could do it that way, which is
probably the easiest way of doing it.
However, there is another way in which you
can do it.
And you can work out the length of the
list, by using a function called len.
And what that does, just remove that line,
what that
does is it tells us that the length is 11.
So, from there, you could create a
variable called length, is equal
to length of list, and if you wanted the
fourth from the end, you could do
list and we'll do length minus four, and
that will give us number eight again.
So that's exactly the same as doing minus
four as it was before.
However, this time it allows you to see
what is actually happening.
Now I would recommend that you did it the
first way, where you just
put a minus four in straight away, cuz
you'll get the exact same answer.
However, it receives one less function
call,
which obviously makes it a little bit
faster.
And also it's better coding, because you
can actually,
it's more condensed so you can fit more
than
one line so if something goes over
multiple lines
it usually gets harder to read and so on.
So I would recommend that you did, you
learn and you recognize minus numbers
go from the right to left and positive
numbers go from left to right.
And left to right starts zero, but, from
right to left starts at minus one.
Ok, so the next thing that we can do is we
can add something called a
sequence which is, if we wanted to select,
all the numbers from number two to number
four.
So, this is the start and this is the stop
value.
However, the stop value is one more than
where it will actually stop.
So this will stop at index three.
So you get three and four, so [UNKNOWN]
one, two, three.
Now notice number four hasn't actually
been outputted, and the reason
for that is simply because it stops at the
value beforehand.
Now there is a way to get around that, and
that is simply just to put it as a value
higher than what it is that you want to
stop
and that allows you to now get up to value
four.
However there's also, the possibility that
that might confuse you, so just remember
that it goes from, to one value higher
than what it is that you've written.
I mean, one value less than what it is
that you've written.
Now because we have to start and stop, we
also have a third option, which is called
the stepper.
And the stepper, you just add another
colon,
and you can choose how much to step by.
So I'm just gonna change this value here
to eight.
And if we run this, you'll see we get
three, five and seven.
So we start at number two, which is this
index here.
Then we skip two, and this is our next
value.
And we skip two, and this is our next
So if we were to change this to ten, for
example, then we get it run up to nine.
And that is the general idea of how this,
stepper works.
However, you do have the option, if you
don't want to
declare the where to stop, you can have
two colon colon two.
And that will start at number two and skip
its way,
or step its way up two, until it reaches
the end.
Or if you don't want to start at any
particular index and you want
to start at the beginning, you can do it
that way, with colon, colon, two.
And just, so there are multiple options
which you have here.
And again, you can do colon four colon
two, which
will get it from the beginning up to,
index four.
Well, one less than index four, which is
index three, and so on.
So this is the general idea in which you
can use sequences to select certain ranges
of data within your actual list, which is
considerably
useful when you come to using these to
store information about, say,
a user or about a program what you're
using like a settings file.
It is useful to be able to use sequences
and to be able to use the start and stop.
So thank you for watching, and I'll see
you in the next video.
[MUSIC]